Our AI Strategy for Creating Dataminr-unique High Performance LLMs and Foundation Models - Dataminr AI Platform Products Dataminr for Corporate Security Enhance organizational safety and resilience across three key use cases: protecting people, securing facilities and events, and ensuring operational resilience. First Alert Increase decision-making speed with a real-time critical event discovery solution for the public sector. Dataminr for News Helps journalists in over 1,500 newsrooms to break news on the stories that matter most to their audiences. Dataminr for Cyber Defense Solutions Three solutions that close the gap between knowing about a threat and actually reducing the risk. Client-Tailored Threat Intelligence Agentic TI Ops Predictive Threat Exposure Management Capabilities Four integrated capabilities power the system. Together, they provide continuous foresight, focus, and action. Threat Intelligence Investigation Insights Agentic Threat Intelligence Platform Continuous Control Monitoring with Risk Quantification Use Cases Diplomatic Security &amp; Crisis Management Emergency Management Executive Official Awareness Force Protection Law Enforcement Transportation and Infrastructure Protection Digital Risk Management Cyber Threat Intelligence Third-Party Risk Management Vulnerability Prioritization Employee Safety Executive Protection Physical Security Travel Risk Management Financial Services Insurance Supply Chain Management Announcement Dataminr Redefines Cyber Defense with AI-Powered Client-Tailored Intelligence and Autonomous Threat and Exposure Management Learn more Partners Partners Dataminr partners enable enterprises to manage operational, cyber, business and reputational risks more holistically and effectively. Partner Central Login Leverage Dataminr's market-leading AI platform to deliver enhanced value for your customers across a broad array of use cases. Platform Partners Solution Providers Technology Alliance Partners MSSP Partners Integration Partners Announcement Dataminr Launches Global Partner Network, Empowering Partner Growth with Leading AI Platform Learn more Resources Developer Portal Glossary Resource by topic Business Resilience Cyber Defense Security Operations Public Sector Resource by type Blog Case Studies Ebooks Insights INTEL BRIEFS On-demand Webinars Risk Reports Live Webinar Dataminr Live Webinar: Live Demos Led by Industry Experts Learn more Company About us Dataminr’s AI platform delivers the earliest warnings on high impact events and critical information far in advance of other sources. Dataminr for Nonprofits Humanitarian organizations and nonprofits can know first, act faster and better serve the world's most vulnerable. Careers Customers Culture Events Leadership Press Trust Services Contact us Announcement Dataminr Redefines Cyber Defense with AI-Powered Client-Tailored Intelligence and Autonomous Threat and Exposure Management Learn more Search Quick links Dataminr Pulse for Corporate Security Dataminr Pulse for Cyber Risk First Alert Resources Support Support Login Request a demo Home Resources Our AI Strategy for Creating Dataminr-unique High Performance LLMs and Foundation Models BLOG Our AI Strategy for Creating Dataminr-unique High Performance LLMs and Foundation Models In order to realize Dataminr’s expansive vision, our AI strategy has been to create a broad set of Dataminr-unique, customized foundation models and LLMs. DATE October 3, 2023 AUTHOR Alex Jaimes, Chief AI Officer SHARE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE In this second installment of our new AI blog series, I will cover the pillars of Dataminr’s AI strategy for using large language models (LLMs) and Foundation Models. I recently joined Ted Bailey, our Founder and CEO, to outline the company’s exciting vision for Harnessing the Power of LLMs and Multi-modal Foundation Models in Dataminr’s AI Platform . In order to realize Dataminr’s expansive vision, our AI strategy has been to create a broad set of Dataminr-unique, customized Foundation Models and LLMs. We’ve created customized Foundation Models through several techniques, including both the “fine tuning” of open-source Foundation Models and also through building out our own distinct proprietary models from the ground up. Today, our AI platform includes more than 35 customized Dataminr Foundation Models operating in production in tandem with an extensive array of specialized AI models created by our AI and engineering teams from scratch. Recently, there has been significant public focus on large scale Foundation Models accessible via APIs, such as GPT-4 (which powers ChatGPT). There is a common misconception, particularly outside of the technical community, that integrating LLMs into enterprise products requires using these mega models. While off-the-shelf Foundation Models such as GPT-4 can perform well in certain tasks, there are several significant challenges when applying these types of models to specific problem domains. General purpose LLMs are generally extremely large, which means they can be prohibitively expensive to run at scale. And, by design, they’re also generic and broad in nature, often underperforming in terms of accuracy when compared to models built and tailored for domain-specific specialized applications. Another key limitation of current, off-the-shelf LLMs is that they have training cutoff dates and do not have up-to-date information. Since these models are trained with extremely large amounts of data, it’s not practical, nor desirable, to continuously re-train them. In addition, customization options for off-the-shelf models are limited (e.g., Prompt Engineering), making it virtually impossible to truly optimize these models for the highest performance levels at scale. For all the reasons above, there is a growing consensus in the technical community that for B2B enterprise applications with specialized use cases, the process of customizing Foundation Models is essential to achieve the desired performance levels (e.g., model accuracy, detection and summarization latency, and cost effectiveness). Taking this approach is also critical to ensuring that the necessary controls are designed into the applications. Therefore, customizing a broad set of Foundation Models and LLMs for specific tasks—rather than just relying on a single, very large off-the-shelf LLM model—is increasingly viewed as a requirement for real world applications that effectively address a specific set of domain-specific problems for enterprises and government organizations. The challenge, however, with this approach is that it is far more difficult to implement. For new startup companies, it can be nothing short of impossible. Customizing LLMs in production for large-scale use cases and applications requires three key ingredients: A vast archive of domain specific proprietary data World class AI prowess An AI platform architecture to streamline all aspects related to experimentation, fine-tuning, optimization, deployment, and monitoring of the models Practically speaking, having these three elements requires substantial upfront platform investment, years of platform development and architecture work, and access to an extensive archive of proprietary domain-specific data. For Dataminr, the cornerstone of customizing Foundation Models is our unmatched proprietary data and event archive which we have been building for more than a decade. The 35-plus customized LLMs and Foundation Models we’ve operationalized in production have been tailored to our use cases with our archive. This is the fundamental reason why Dataminr’s Foundation Models excel at performing the specific range of tasks involved in the discovery, categorization, contextualization, and summarization of real-time events, risks, and critical information. Video Trailblazing GenAI Innovation Dataminr’s Founder and CEO, Ted Bailey, gives a lightning talk on ReGenAI and the evolution of Dataminr’s AI Platform at the MIT and Forbes ‘ Imagination in Action AI Conference. Watch Now Dataminr’s unique 10-plus year archive is multidimensional. It is continually updated in real time and spans: All the events, risks and information our AI platform has identified to date Data streams from nearly one million public data sources A vast archive of human-AI feedback loop annotations from domain experts When a new pattern in public data is spotted, our AI platform can instantaneously leverage the archive, recognizing similarities and differences by cross-comparing an emerging pattern with all those recorded before. In essence, our AI platform can dynamically use the multi-dimensional contours of the past to more accurately predict the nature of the present. Leveraging our unique archive enables Dataminr to create domain and task-specific customized Foundation Models that are purpose built, and that can’t be replicated by anyone else. Dataminr has another distinct proprietary data advantage when deploying LLMs and Foundation Models. We have also spent years building an expansive Knowledge Platform that includes a proprietary custom Knowledge Graph of millions of public and private sector entities and relationships between those entities. Using Foundation Models in conjunction with our Knowledge Platform has further enhanced performance and allowed Dataminr to ensure that we deliver the most up-to-date, relevant and actionable alerts to our customers. Additionally, integrating this Knowledge Platform of fixed domain-specific referential points has also allowed us to mitigate the propensity for Foundation Models to sometimes “hallucinate”—one of the growing challenges faced with LLMs. Since the launch of our first LLM-based models in 2020, our world-class AI and engineering teams (including more than 20 Ph.D.s in AI) have worked across all aspects of our platform to increase its ability to scale the customization of Foundation Models. We’ve made platform architectural decisions to more easily integrate and deploy AI models, and we’ve created agile experimentation frameworks and processes that allow us to quickly train, test, evaluate, and monitor AI models before launch, as well as while they run in production. Recently, we’ve expanded our efforts to formalize these steps in LLMOps: the practices, techniques, and tools required to operationalize LLMs in production at a very large scale. This robust process includes optimization of models to run faster at lower cost, at scale, on specialized hardware accelerators. We’ve built new AI creation and experimentation tools that include datasets and workflows for model creators, and internal model service APIs and dashboards that allow for continuous monitoring of model performance. Taking these steps has resulted in a rapid cycle of Foundation Model customization, testing and integration. Streamlining LLMOps is critical because different LLMs and Foundation Models perform differently on different tasks, and each Foundation Model has to be uniquely customized based on the model’s strengths and weaknesses. This requires creating and managing many benchmarks, metrics, and experiments to optimize each model’s performance and performance of the platform as a whole on an ongoing basis. The combination of LLMOps with Dataminr’s historical 10-plus year archive makes Dataminr’s AI platform truly unique and unparalleled. Our unmatched archive empowers Dataminr to create proprietary, customized Foundation Models that are purpose built. We continue to deliver highly valuable signals to our customers that no other company can replicate, while further accelerating our AI platform’s uncatchable advantage. Stay tuned for more AI blog posts. Oct 3, 2023 SHARE Turn Security Into Strategy REQUEST DEMO Oct 3, 2023 Artificial Intelligence Blog Related resources Blog Implications of Recent CISA Disclosures on Iranian OT System Targeting Read more Blog The World Cup Was Safe Thanks to the People You Never Saw Read more Blog Australia’s New CIRMP Rules: Meeting the Near-Real-Time Threat Picture Requirement Read more View all resources Dataminr is one of New York's top private technology companies, with employees across six global offices. Follow Us AI Platform Dataminr for Corporate Security Dataminr for Cyber Defense First Alert Dataminr for News Company Partners Nonprofits Customers Culture Leadership Careers Press Contact Us Resources Business Resilience Cybersecurity Security Operations Public Sector Glossary @ 2026 Dataminr. All rights reserved Cookie Preferences Privacy policy Terms of use Trust Services Modern Slavery Act Statement × × Our use of cookies We use cookies and similar technologies for functionality, retargeting/advertising, performance, performance/analytics, and to operate the website. For more information, review our cookie settings and Privacy and Cookie Policy Cookies Settings Accept Cookies Cookie Preferences This preference center applies to this website. When you visit this website, information may be stored on or retrieved from your browser, mostly in the form of or through cookies (e.g., first party and third-party cookies) and similar technologies (e.g., local storage, web beacons, etc.) (collectively “cookies”). This information might be about you, your preferences, and/or your device. The cookies may include those deployed by third parties providing services to us. These third parties may use these cookies and the information collected in connection therewith (including information collected on and off of our websites), for providing services to us and also to improve, enhance, and deliver their services to all of their customers. We respect your right to privacy; therefore, we provide you with the ability to choose what cookies to allow. You can toggle "on" (blue color) to allow cookies and toggle "off" (gray color) to block cookies. Blocking cookies may impact your experience on this website. A preference cookie will be set to record your preferences and if you clear your cookies this will delete your preferences for this website, and you will need to re-enter your preferences the next time you access it. This preference center only affects cookies deployed or set through this website. Opt-Out of the Sale of Personal Information Through this website third parties may collect personal information via cookies for non-monetary consideration (such as an enhanced ability to serve you content and advertisements that may be of interest to you), which may constitute a sale of personal information under certain state laws in the United States (e.g., California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018). Except as described in the preceding sentence, Dataminr does not sell your personal information. To opt-out, you can toggle-off retargeting/advertising cookies. Privacy and Cookie Policy Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for websites to function and cannot be switched off through Dataminr's cookie preference center. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in, or filling in forms. Cookies Details‎ Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies allow the website to remember information about you (e.g., a username or ID) and the choices you make (e.g., your language preference, or the area or region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personalized features or content to you. These cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts, and other customizable parts of web pages. They may also be used to provide Services you have asked for, such as watching a video or commenting on a blog. If you do not allow these cookies or if you toggle these cookies off, then some or all of these services or features may not function properly. These cookies cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Cookies Details‎ Performance/Analytical Cookies Performance/Analytical Cookies Analytical cookies help us improve our website by collecting and reporting information on its usage such as which pages visitors view and how visitors move around the site. Cookies Details‎ Retargeting/Advertising Cookies Retargeting/Advertising Cookies These cookies track browsing habits (on and off of our websites and digital properties) and are used to deliver targeted (interest-based) advertising. They are also used to limit the number of times you see an ad and to measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. They remember that you have visited a website and this information may be shared with other organizations, such as advertisers and Dataminr's advertising partners, who might use it with information about how you use other websites, including identifying shared interests and behaviors across groups of users who visit our (and other) websites. In connection with these types of cookies, your activity may be tracked or monitored using identifiers (e.g., a cookie ID, other unique identification numbers). These types of cookies will typically stay on your computer until they are deleted or until they expire (if applicable). Cookies Details‎ Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. &nbsp; &nbsp;All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Cookies Details‎ Back Button Cookie List Search Icon Filter Icon Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Reject Cookies (except necessary) Confirm My Choices