Trust Services | Dataminr AI Platform Products Dataminr for Corporate Security Enhance organizational safety and resilience across three key use cases: protecting people, securing facilities and events, and ensuring operational resilience. First Alert Increase decision-making speed with a real-time critical event discovery solution for the public sector. Dataminr for News Helps journalists in over 1,500 newsrooms to break news on the stories that matter most to their audiences. Dataminr for Cyber Defense Solutions Three solutions that close the gap between knowing about a threat and actually reducing the risk. Client-Tailored Threat Intelligence Agentic TI Ops Predictive Threat Exposure Management Capabilities Four integrated capabilities power the system. Together, they provide continuous foresight, focus, and action. Threat Intelligence Investigation Insights Agentic Threat Intelligence Platform Continuous Control Monitoring with Risk Quantification Use Cases Diplomatic Security &amp; Crisis Management Emergency Management Executive Official Awareness Force Protection Law Enforcement Transportation and Infrastructure Protection Digital Risk Management Cyber Threat Intelligence Third-Party Risk Management Vulnerability Prioritization Employee Safety Executive Protection Physical Security Travel Risk Management Financial Services Insurance Supply Chain Management Announcement Dataminr Redefines Cyber Defense with AI-Powered Client-Tailored Intelligence and Autonomous Threat and Exposure Management Learn more Partners Partners Dataminr partners enable enterprises to manage operational, cyber, business and reputational risks more holistically and effectively. Partner Central Login Leverage Dataminr's market-leading AI platform to deliver enhanced value for your customers across a broad array of use cases. Platform Partners Solution Providers Technology Alliance Partners MSSP Partners Integration Partners Announcement Dataminr Launches Global Partner Network, Empowering Partner Growth with Leading AI Platform Learn more Resources Developer Portal Glossary Resource by topic Business Resilience Cyber Defense Security Operations Public Sector Resource by type Blog Case Studies Ebooks Insights INTEL BRIEFS On-demand Webinars Risk Reports Live Webinar Dataminr Live Webinar: Live Demos Led by Industry Experts Learn more Company About us Dataminr’s AI platform delivers the earliest warnings on high impact events and critical information far in advance of other sources. Dataminr for Nonprofits Humanitarian organizations and nonprofits can know first, act faster and better serve the world's most vulnerable. Careers Customers Culture Events Leadership Press Trust Services Contact us Announcement Dataminr Redefines Cyber Defense with AI-Powered Client-Tailored Intelligence and Autonomous Threat and Exposure Management Learn more Search Quick links Dataminr Pulse for Corporate Security Dataminr Pulse for Cyber Risk First Alert Resources Support Support Login Request a demo Explore: solution security privacy ai governance compliance compliance-desc Dataminr Trust Services Security, privacy, AI governance, and compliance (“Trust”) are integral to Dataminr’s mission of delivering real-time, AI-powered alerts on high-impact events and critical information via a web application, mobile application, API, email and/or push notiﬁcations. Want to learn more about Dataminr’s trust practices? Review our third-party audit reports. REQUEST ACCESS Trust by Design Dataminr embeds Security by Design, Privacy by Design, and Responsible AI&nbsp;throughout its Systems and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to ensure controls are well designed and operating effectively. Trust controls are implemented and monitored by dedicated internal teams and verified by qualified, internationally accredited third-party auditors. Dataminr regularly conducts security, privacy, and AI governance audits, and results are presented to top management. Security Read more Privacy Read more AI Governance Read more Compliance Read more Security by Design Dataminr has developed and maintains modern security infrastructure and tools including AI-enabled preventative and detective solutions to protect customer assets: &nbsp; Red Teaming &amp; Penetration Testing Comprehensive application and network penetration testing is conducted at least annually by qualified, independent security firms. Testing providers are rotated to ensure diverse coverage and fresh perspectives on potential vulnerabilities. Third party red teaming including social engineering and AI adversarial testing are conducted at least annually. Additionally, Dataminr’s internal Trust team members conduct pen testing periodically throughout the year to address new products and features. Agentic AI-enabled automated red teaming and penetration testing is conducted continuously throughout the year. &nbsp; Access management Dataminr maintains a strict need-based approach to managing user access with unique user identifiers (UUIDs). SAML 2.0 support is available for customers to integrate their preferred Single Sign-On (SSO) solution. &nbsp; Enterprise-Class VPN Access to Dataminr’s production environment is protected by a VPN with multi-factor authentication (MFA).&nbsp; &nbsp; Physical Security Third-party managed data centers incorporate biometric access controls, extensive security cameras, 24/7 security personnel, and maintain a complete log of access events.&nbsp; &nbsp; Secure Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Dataminr applies a privacy-and-security-by-design approach, including approval processes, segregation of duties, peer code review, automated code scanning, and Quality Assurance (QA). Separate test and production environments are maintained, and customer data is not permitted in Dataminr’s test environment. &nbsp; Configuration Management Configuration baselines are established and enforced with hardening standards consistently applied. Baseline configurations are kept current and monitored to prevent deviations. &nbsp; Network Security Dataminr utilizes a multi-layered approach with extensive use of security groups configured to deny all traffic by default and allow only well-defined, permitted traffic. Industry standard Web Application Firewall (WAF) technology is maintained to protect Dataminr’s customer applications. &nbsp; Encryption Dataminr leverages industry standard encryption technologies to ensure that the confidentiality of customer data is protected. Customer data is encrypted at rest utilizing AES-256 and in motion using TLS 1.2 or higher. &nbsp; Logging and Monitoring Dataminr conducts infrastructure and application logging utilizing industry standard software solutions. AI-enabled intrusion prevention and detection systems are monitored by Dataminr’s 24/7/365 SOC. Anomalies are promptly investigated and addressed. &nbsp; Architecture Dataminr utilizes cloud infrastructure as a service (IaaS), leveraging modern containerized micro-service architecture and zero trust network segmentation. Architecture diagrams are maintained and reviewed on an annual basis.&nbsp; &nbsp; Data Loss Prevention (DLP) Dataminr’s multi-tiered approach to DLP covers both production and corporate information resources. Dataminr’s DLP program enables systematic detection and prevention of suspicious or inappropriate data handling, creating an additional layer of protection for confidential data. &nbsp; Threat Intelligence Dataminr utilizes third-party threat intelligence services together with internal analysis to assess relevance and any needed mitigation. Real-time threat intelligence information includes, but is not limited to, denial of service, zero day, public exploits, and actively exploited vulnerabilities. &nbsp; Incident Management Dataminr has implemented a NIST-based incident response plan that includes clearly defined roles and responsibilities, communication requirements, as well as procedures for incident preparation, detection/identification, escalation, containment, eradication, recovery, and lessons learned. Appropriate channels for reporting incidents are communicated and maintained. &nbsp; Asset Management Dataminr maintains complete asset inventories covering hardware, software, and data resources with asset owners responsible for protecting confidentiality, integrity, and availability throughout the complete life cycle. &nbsp; Third-party Risk Dataminr’s third-party risk program includes security assessments of proposed and existing suppliers to ensure comprehensive trust programs have been implemented. &nbsp; Training &amp; Awareness Employees complete security training upon hire and annually thereafter. Specialized annual training in areas such as secure coding is provided to the appropriate teams. Phishing simulations are conducted on a quarterly basis. &nbsp; Security Operations Dataminr maintains a 24/7/365 security operations center (SOC) for continuous customer protection. A third-party specialist incident response firm has been retained for rapid support in the unlikely event of a security or privacy incident. &nbsp; Vulnerability Management Internal and external application and network scans along with dynamic and static application security testing are conducted utilizing industry standard software solutions. Risk treatments are promptly identified, documented, and prioritized by qualified personnel. Dataminr also employs next generation red teaming and administers a private bug bounty program. &nbsp; Resiliency&nbsp; Dataminr maintains business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) plans that outline the procedures to be followed in the event of an availability incident. Testing is conducted at least annually, including a lessons learned component. Additionally, redundant availability zones and cross-region data replication within Dataminr’s AWS infrastructure help to safeguard availability. Privacy by Design Want to learn more about Dataminr’s privacy practices? Review our Privacy Policy . &nbsp; Dataminr is committed to strict protection of personal data for its customers and employees with emphasis in the following areas: &nbsp; Privacy Impact Assessments Dataminr conducts privacy impact assessments, data processing impact assessments, and other applicable privacy assessments. Privacy controls are implemented to treat identified risks. &nbsp; Data Governance Dataminr applies data protection and privacy principles to data processing activities, including confidentiality, limitations on data access and use, data minimization, data security, data disposal, and purpose limitation. &nbsp; Data Residency Dataminr is headquartered in the United States with subsidiaries in Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Germany, Denmark, and Australia. Dataminr’s platform is hosted on AWS in Northern Virginia, United States. &nbsp; Privacy Affiliations Dataminr’s dedicated privacy and security professionals hold certifications from organizations such as the Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) and the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP). Dataminr is a corporate member of the IAPP. &nbsp; Regulatory Compliance Dataminr has implemented processes and technologies to comply with GDPR, CCPA, and other global privacy regulations. &nbsp; Data Processing Addendums (DPAs) Dataminr uses a data processing addendum, where appropriate, to address relevant responsibilities, restrictions and obligations when Dataminr is acting in the data processing role (or other similar terms). &nbsp; Cross-border Data Transfers Personal data is only transferred across borders with appropriate mechanisms applied, in accordance with data processing terms.&nbsp; &nbsp; Data Subject Requests (DSRs) Dataminr has procedures to assist customers (who act as Personal Data Controllers) in addressing data subject requests. Documented DSR procedures ensure requests are processed accurately and promptly. &nbsp; Training &amp; Awareness Employees complete privacy training upon hire and annually thereafter covering the U.S. Privacy Act, the EU GDPR, and the CCPA. &nbsp; Third-party Risk Dataminr’s third-party risk program includes privacy assessments of proposed and existing suppliers to ensure appropriate privacy practices have been implemented. AI Governance Dataminr integrates Trust by Design practices throughout the complete AI system life cycle, from initial planning and development through deployment and operations. &nbsp; Responsibl e AI Framework Dataminr is among the first 40 organizations worldwide to earn ISO 42001 AI Governance certification, demonstrating our strong commitment to internationally recognized standards for Responsible AI. This certification provides third-party assurance of our AI governance practices. Additionally, Dataminr has adopted NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework.&nbsp; &nbsp; Reliability &amp; Safety&nbsp; Our AI systems undergo rigorous testing protocols including adversarial testing, performance validation across diverse scenarios, and safeguards to help prevent false positives. We maintain human oversight processes to ensure consistent performance and appropriate model behavior. &nbsp; Continuous Improvement&nbsp; We continuously monitor our AI systems and implement iterative improvements based on quality assessments, performance metrics, emerging best practices, and customer feedback.&nbsp; &nbsp; Training &amp; Awareness Employees complete AI governance training upon hire and annually thereafter. Specialized annual training in areas such as OWASP Top 10 Risk and Mitigations for LLMs &amp; GenAI Applications is provided to the appropriate teams. &nbsp; Third-party Risk Dataminr maintains a third-party risk program that includes AI assessments of proposed and existing suppliers to ensure AI governance. &nbsp; Model Testing Standardized procedures for ensuring optimal training, validation, and testing datasets are enforced, and potential impacts on model performance are carefully considered. Dataminr rigorously tests its AI models to identify any vulnerabilities and weaknesses, leveraging the OWASP Top 10 for LLM Applications, as well as a specialized model scanning solution. Additionally, third party adversarial model testing is conducted at least annually. Compliance Customer Assurance Dataminr maintains multiple industry-leading certifications and compliance attestations which are verified annually by top internationally accredited third-party auditors: &nbsp; ISO 42001: International standard that provides a framework for establishing, implementing, and maintaining an AI Management System (AIMS) to ensure responsible development, governance, and use of AI. &nbsp; ISO 27001: Leading international standard for establishing, implementing, and maintaining an Information Security Management System (ISMS), providing a systematic approach to manage security risk and protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data. &nbsp; ISO 27701: Extension to ISO 27001 that provides requirements and guidance for establishing, implementing, and maintaining a Privacy Information Management System (PIMS) to help organizations comply with international privacy regulations like GDPR. &nbsp; NIST 800-171: U.S. federal standard that specifies security requirements for protecting Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) in non-federal systems. &nbsp; SOC 2 Type 2: AICPA-sanctioned independent attestation that examines the design and operational effectiveness of a service organization’s controls over a specified time period. &nbsp; Compliance Program Management Dataminr’s compliance program includes regular internal assessments and continuous control monitoring. Formal management review of the overall Trust program is conducted at least quarterly, including review of risk treatment plans and remediation activities. Compliance requirements are addressed throughout the software development lifecycle. &nbsp; Regulatory Alignment Our compliance program addresses requirements across multiple international frameworks and jurisdictions, including GDPR, CCPA, and the U.S. Privacy Act for data protection, as well as alignment with the NIST AI Risk Management Framework for AI governance. Request a Demo Learn how Dataminr brings insight and clarity when it matters most Request a Demo Explore Resources Library Unlock Dataminr’s insights, tools and strategies All Resources Dataminr is one of New York's top private technology companies, with employees across six global offices. Follow Us AI Platform Dataminr for Corporate Security Dataminr for Cyber Defense First Alert Dataminr for News Company Partners Nonprofits Customers Culture Leadership Careers Press Contact Us Resources Business Resilience Cybersecurity Security Operations Public Sector Glossary @ 2026 Dataminr. All rights reserved Cookie Preferences Privacy policy Terms of use Trust Services Modern Slavery Act Statement × × Our use of cookies We use cookies and similar technologies for functionality, retargeting/advertising, performance, performance/analytics, and to operate the website. For more information, review our cookie settings and Privacy and Cookie Policy Cookies Settings Accept Cookies Cookie Preferences This preference center applies to this website. When you visit this website, information may be stored on or retrieved from your browser, mostly in the form of or through cookies (e.g., first party and third-party cookies) and similar technologies (e.g., local storage, web beacons, etc.) (collectively “cookies”). This information might be about you, your preferences, and/or your device. The cookies may include those deployed by third parties providing services to us. These third parties may use these cookies and the information collected in connection therewith (including information collected on and off of our websites), for providing services to us and also to improve, enhance, and deliver their services to all of their customers. We respect your right to privacy; therefore, we provide you with the ability to choose what cookies to allow. You can toggle "on" (blue color) to allow cookies and toggle "off" (gray color) to block cookies. Blocking cookies may impact your experience on this website. A preference cookie will be set to record your preferences and if you clear your cookies this will delete your preferences for this website, and you will need to re-enter your preferences the next time you access it. This preference center only affects cookies deployed or set through this website. Opt-Out of the Sale of Personal Information Through this website third parties may collect personal information via cookies for non-monetary consideration (such as an enhanced ability to serve you content and advertisements that may be of interest to you), which may constitute a sale of personal information under certain state laws in the United States (e.g., California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018). Except as described in the preceding sentence, Dataminr does not sell your personal information. To opt-out, you can toggle-off retargeting/advertising cookies. Privacy and Cookie Policy Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for websites to function and cannot be switched off through Dataminr's cookie preference center. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in, or filling in forms. Cookies Details‎ Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies allow the website to remember information about you (e.g., a username or ID) and the choices you make (e.g., your language preference, or the area or region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personalized features or content to you. These cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts, and other customizable parts of web pages. They may also be used to provide Services you have asked for, such as watching a video or commenting on a blog. If you do not allow these cookies or if you toggle these cookies off, then some or all of these services or features may not function properly. These cookies cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Cookies Details‎ Performance/Analytical Cookies Performance/Analytical Cookies Analytical cookies help us improve our website by collecting and reporting information on its usage such as which pages visitors view and how visitors move around the site. Cookies Details‎ Retargeting/Advertising Cookies Retargeting/Advertising Cookies These cookies track browsing habits (on and off of our websites and digital properties) and are used to deliver targeted (interest-based) advertising. They are also used to limit the number of times you see an ad and to measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. They remember that you have visited a website and this information may be shared with other organizations, such as advertisers and Dataminr's advertising partners, who might use it with information about how you use other websites, including identifying shared interests and behaviors across groups of users who visit our (and other) websites. In connection with these types of cookies, your activity may be tracked or monitored using identifiers (e.g., a cookie ID, other unique identification numbers). These types of cookies will typically stay on your computer until they are deleted or until they expire (if applicable). Cookies Details‎ Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. &nbsp; &nbsp;All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Cookies Details‎ Back Button Cookie List Search Icon Filter Icon Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Reject Cookies (except necessary) Confirm My Choices