Multi-Modal Fusion AI for Real-time Event Detection - Dataminr AI Platform Products Dataminr for Corporate Security Enhance organizational safety and resilience across three key use cases: protecting people, securing facilities and events, and ensuring operational resilience. First Alert Increase decision-making speed with a real-time critical event discovery solution for the public sector. Dataminr for News Helps journalists in over 1,500 newsrooms to break news on the stories that matter most to their audiences. Dataminr for Cyber Defense Solutions Three solutions that close the gap between knowing about a threat and actually reducing the risk. Client-Tailored Threat Intelligence Agentic TI Ops Predictive Threat Exposure Management Capabilities Four integrated capabilities power the system. Together, they provide continuous foresight, focus, and action. Threat Intelligence Investigation Insights Agentic Threat Intelligence Platform Continuous Control Monitoring with Risk Quantification Use Cases Diplomatic Security &amp; Crisis Management Emergency Management Executive Official Awareness Force Protection Law Enforcement Transportation and Infrastructure Protection Digital Risk Management Cyber Threat Intelligence Third-Party Risk Management Vulnerability Prioritization Employee Safety Executive Protection Physical Security Travel Risk Management Financial Services Insurance Supply Chain Management Announcement Dataminr Redefines Cyber Defense with AI-Powered Client-Tailored Intelligence and Autonomous Threat and Exposure Management Learn more Partners Partners Dataminr partners enable enterprises to manage operational, cyber, business and reputational risks more holistically and effectively. Partner Central Login Leverage Dataminr's market-leading AI platform to deliver enhanced value for your customers across a broad array of use cases. Platform Partners Solution Providers Technology Alliance Partners MSSP Partners Integration Partners Announcement Dataminr Launches Global Partner Network, Empowering Partner Growth with Leading AI Platform Learn more Resources Developer Portal Glossary Resource by topic Business Resilience Cyber Defense Security Operations Public Sector Resource by type Blog Case Studies Ebooks Insights INTEL BRIEFS On-demand Webinars Risk Reports Live Webinar Dataminr Live Webinar: Live Demos Led by Industry Experts Learn more Company About us Dataminr’s AI platform delivers the earliest warnings on high impact events and critical information far in advance of other sources. Dataminr for Nonprofits Humanitarian organizations and nonprofits can know first, act faster and better serve the world's most vulnerable. Careers Customers Culture Events Leadership Press Trust Services Contact us Announcement Dataminr Redefines Cyber Defense with AI-Powered Client-Tailored Intelligence and Autonomous Threat and Exposure Management Learn more Search Quick links Dataminr Pulse for Corporate Security Dataminr Pulse for Cyber Risk First Alert Resources Support Support Login Request a demo Home Resources Multi-Modal Fusion AI for Real-time Event Detection BLOG Multi-Modal Fusion AI for Real-time Event Detection Dataminr built the leading real-time AI Platform for detecting global events by processing billions of public data inputs per day in a wide range of formats and from hundreds of thousands distinct data sources. DATE February 18, 2020 AUTHOR Alex Jaimes SHARE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Last week, Dataminr joined 3,000 of the world’s leading AI researchers at the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence conference. This was an amazing opportunity for members of our AI team to engage in dialogue about a broad range of the AI techniques we use in our AI Platform—spanning Neural Networks, Deep Learning, and Machine Learning, in the fields of Natural Language Processing, Natural language Generation, Computer Vision, and Multi-Modal Event Detection, among others. At the conference, I had interesting conversations with top members of the AI research community on varied topics. I also had the opportunity to chat with chess champion Garry Kasparov and Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman. I asked Kasparov about his thoughts on solving games as being mainly a search problem (every move as a search for the best solution), and whether intelligence could be measured, mainly by how well one transfers that knowledge to another domain. Kahneman and I spoke about whether his “System 1” was like pre-attentive processing, and the role of context. I also had the chance to hear from many members of the AI research community about a range of techniques that have been developed to detect events using AI. Across the field of AI today, most techniques for detecting events have focused on single-modality approaches that separately deal with image-only, video-only, sound-only, or text-only inputs. While these single-modality methods can be effective in some circumstances, each runs into limitations. At Dataminr, we have built the leading real-time AI Platform for detecting global events by processing billions of public data inputs per day in a wide range of formats and from hundreds of thousands distinct data sources. These public data inputs include text, images, video, sound, and public IoT sensor data. Our AI models span natural language understanding, computer vision, sound/audio detection and anomaly detection in machine-generated data streams. Over years of research and experimentation, we have learned that in many cases, an event can only be detected accurately, as early as possible, by using Deep Learning that combines mutli-modal signals—in other words, a signal that combines more than one type of public data input with more than one field of AI. For this reason, we have focused on early detection multi-modal AI Fusion methods that synthesize diverse and disparate public data sources to discover events. Today, information about events is shared instantly as public data – often fragmented and in various data formats ranging from text, to images, videos, sound and machine-generated data streams. For example, eyewitness images posted on social media are accompanied by textual first-hand accounts that can provide additional context. During our many years exploring the real-time public information landscape, we have found that in breaking events, information is publicly available in pieces, coming from a wide range of different public sources. Often, it’s only together that these fragments of information provide the full set of puzzle pieces needed to quickly create a complete picture of what has actually happened or what is currently happening. In order to illustrate how multi-modal detection works, I am going to describe an example of one of these methods with some technical depth—the fusion of image detection (Computer Vision) and textual detection (using Natural Language Understanding) by leveraging Deep Learning Neural Networks. I’ll start with a high-level explanation of what is meant by the concept of “attention” in Deep Learning, where multiple layers of Neural Networks are used. Then I’ll briefly explain word embeddings, and give a brief overview of how our real-time AI Platform fuses and cross-correlates two modalities: image content using Computer Vision and text using natural language understanding. Both techniques rely on state-of-the-art approaches that leverage multiple layers of Neural Networks whose outputs fuse the most important parts of the image or text signals to more accurately detect events. Our text and Image AI fusion method consists of several distinct components. Given an image-text pair, our AI Platform generates a feature map for the image, word embeddings for the text, and then leverages a Deep Learning crossmodal attention mechanism to fuse information from the two modalities. In Deep Learning, “attention” means that an AI algorithm is selective in what data it considers of higher importance, in relation to other data that it deems less important. For example, in a textual sentence published on social media that describes an event, the AI algorithms take into account the first word in a given sentence to better understand and interpret the meaning of subsequent words in the sentence. Some of these words are more strongly related to each other than others and thus have higher “attention”—additionally, not all words contribute equally to the meaning of a sentence. In images, attention mechanisms function similarly to those in text. How a Computer Vision algorithm interprets a particular section or patch of a given image depends on what the algorithm can “see” surrounding it. Computer Vision algorithms can focus on only certain parts of an image that they deem to be more important to ascertain an event. For example, focusing on a part of an image that depicts the flames of a fire could serve as the critical clue for determining the nature of an event that an image is depicting. Just as with words in sentences, some patches and pixels in the image are far more valuable in identifying real-time breaking events than others. For example, a patch of smoke is more valuable than a patch of sky in determining that a region in the image is likely to be depicting that a fire might be taking place. Word embeddings are based on the idea that words that have similar context will have similar meanings. Most computational Deep Learning AI methods represent words using vectors of numbers, so that algorithms can use those vectors for different tasks. For example, tasks like an algorithm learning how similar two pieces of text are, or tasks to automatically classify text and label it: vectors are used as features to represent text, and then these features are used in Machine Learning tasks and AI models. Word embeddings are simply a representation of text in which each word is mapped to a real-valued vector, and where the real-values (as opposed to integer-values) are learned by an algorithm.&nbsp; Following this logic, words with similar values are interpreted as having similar meanings. Word embeddings have played a major role in recent progress in using Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing (NLP). Additionally, attention mechanisms in Computer Vision have led to significant accuracy improvements in a wide range of detection tasks in images and video. The text and image fusion approach we’ve developed consists of leveraging both techniques jointly, using a novel multi-modal fusion method that synthesizes both image and text as inputs. Our Cross Attention mechanism&nbsp;identifies the most valuable information in the text, in combination with the most valuable information in the image. The model makes use of stochastic shared embeddings to alleviate and prevent overfitting in small data. The basic framework is described in the following figure. As depicted in this diagram, this methodology consists of 4 parts: the first two parts extract feature maps from the image and extract embeddings from the text, respectively; the third part comprises our crossmodal-attention approach to fuse projected image and text embeddings; and the fourth part uses Stochastic Shared Embeddings (SSE) as our regularization technique to prevent overfitting and deal with training data with inconsistent labels for image and text pairs. The novelty of our approach lies in the cross attention and SSE methods for multi-modal classification, which essentially leverage the most relevant parts of either the image or text components to detect events. Our multi-modal fusion AI model outperforms single mode or basic multi-modal techniques. For example; it outperforms “state of the art” approaches that only focus on methods that are based on image-only inputs (DenseNet) and text-only inputs (BERT). Additionally, it outperforms multi-modal simple score and feature fusion methods. The examples outlined above illustrate how Deep Learning based multi-modal AI fusion methods can be used to improve event detection accuracy. AI Multi-Modal fusion has significant potential for the mixture of other data modalities as well. For example, the fusion of video and sound. Often streaming videos of events contain embedded sound fragments that can provide essential clues for event classification of the event depicted in the video. Another example is the fusion of machine-generated data streams and textual and image data. As described in a previous Dataminr blog post , it can be machine generated data from plane transponder signals that provides an initial clue that a plane is in trouble. But, only when a nearby eyewitness social media post is published that includes an image of smoke on the horizon can there be enough digital evidence to suggest a plane crash. The success of multi-modal event detection has been made possible by combining recent advances in data processing power (in particular GPUs), with Deep Learning Neural Networks, and the exponential increase in publicly available data describing real-time events as they occur across the world. As the volume and diversity of public data describing real-time events continues to expand exponentially, multi-modal event detection methods will only get more effective at detecting events in their earliest moments with greater speed and accuracy. Deep Learning for Multi-Modal Event Detection will continue to be a core focus of our AI research. At Dataminr, we define ourselves as a real-time AI Platform to encapsulate the volume, velocity and variety of data formats we process in real-time; the wide range of AI techniques and methods we deploy; and the broad collection of AI models we’ve created and integrated. Over the years, we’ve continuously expanded Dataminr’s AI platform to handle extremely large volumes of diverse data in many formats, in real-time, to easily allow us to integrate and deploy a variety of AI techniques, methods, and models. In that process, we’ve built a world class AI Environment that scales exponentially in the creation of different types of alerts, while at the same time maintaining consistency, efficiency and optimized performance. Multi-modal event detection methods allow us to combine the diverse palette of AI building blocks in our AI platform in more sophisticated ways, realizing one of the greatest benefits of the approach we’ve taken in building our real-time AI platform. Responding to events quickly saves lives and the mission of our AI team is to be continuously innovating — advancing the state of the art in Deep Learning and Neural Networks to continue to push forward the scope of what’s possible with AI. To further expand this experimentation and research, we are currently hiring Ph.D.s in Deep Learning, Machine Learning, Neural Networks, Natural Language Processing, Natural Language Generation, Computer Vision, Information Retrieval, Knowledge Graphs, Complex Networks and Multi-modal event detection. Check here to see if there is a role that is right for you! Feb 18, 2020 SHARE Trailblazing GenAI Innovation Dataminr’s Founder and CEO gives a lightning talk on ReGenAI and the evolution of Dataminr’s AI Platform at the MIT and Forbes' Imagination in Action AI Conference.&nbsp; WATCH NOW Turn Security Into Strategy REQUEST DEMO Feb 18, 2020 Artificial Intelligence Blog Related resources Blog Implications of Recent CISA Disclosures on Iranian OT System Targeting Read more Blog The World Cup Was Safe Thanks to the People You Never Saw Read more Blog Australia’s New CIRMP Rules: Meeting the Near-Real-Time Threat Picture Requirement Read more View all resources Dataminr is one of New York's top private technology companies, with employees across six global offices. Follow Us AI Platform Dataminr for Corporate Security Dataminr for Cyber Defense First Alert Dataminr for News Company Partners Nonprofits Customers Culture Leadership Careers Press Contact Us Resources Business Resilience Cybersecurity Security Operations Public Sector Glossary @ 2026 Dataminr. All rights reserved Cookie Preferences Privacy policy Terms of use Trust Services Modern Slavery Act Statement × × Our use of cookies We use cookies and similar technologies for functionality, retargeting/advertising, performance, performance/analytics, and to operate the website. For more information, review our cookie settings and Privacy and Cookie Policy Cookies Settings Accept Cookies Cookie Preferences This preference center applies to this website. When you visit this website, information may be stored on or retrieved from your browser, mostly in the form of or through cookies (e.g., first party and third-party cookies) and similar technologies (e.g., local storage, web beacons, etc.) (collectively “cookies”). This information might be about you, your preferences, and/or your device. The cookies may include those deployed by third parties providing services to us. These third parties may use these cookies and the information collected in connection therewith (including information collected on and off of our websites), for providing services to us and also to improve, enhance, and deliver their services to all of their customers. We respect your right to privacy; therefore, we provide you with the ability to choose what cookies to allow. You can toggle "on" (blue color) to allow cookies and toggle "off" (gray color) to block cookies. Blocking cookies may impact your experience on this website. A preference cookie will be set to record your preferences and if you clear your cookies this will delete your preferences for this website, and you will need to re-enter your preferences the next time you access it. This preference center only affects cookies deployed or set through this website. Opt-Out of the Sale of Personal Information Through this website third parties may collect personal information via cookies for non-monetary consideration (such as an enhanced ability to serve you content and advertisements that may be of interest to you), which may constitute a sale of personal information under certain state laws in the United States (e.g., California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018). Except as described in the preceding sentence, Dataminr does not sell your personal information. To opt-out, you can toggle-off retargeting/advertising cookies. Privacy and Cookie Policy Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for websites to function and cannot be switched off through Dataminr's cookie preference center. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in, or filling in forms. Cookies Details‎ Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies allow the website to remember information about you (e.g., a username or ID) and the choices you make (e.g., your language preference, or the area or region you are in) and provide enhanced, more personalized features or content to you. These cookies can also be used to remember changes you have made to text size, fonts, and other customizable parts of web pages. They may also be used to provide Services you have asked for, such as watching a video or commenting on a blog. If you do not allow these cookies or if you toggle these cookies off, then some or all of these services or features may not function properly. These cookies cannot track your browsing activity on other websites. Cookies Details‎ Performance/Analytical Cookies Performance/Analytical Cookies Analytical cookies help us improve our website by collecting and reporting information on its usage such as which pages visitors view and how visitors move around the site. Cookies Details‎ Retargeting/Advertising Cookies Retargeting/Advertising Cookies These cookies track browsing habits (on and off of our websites and digital properties) and are used to deliver targeted (interest-based) advertising. They are also used to limit the number of times you see an ad and to measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns. They remember that you have visited a website and this information may be shared with other organizations, such as advertisers and Dataminr's advertising partners, who might use it with information about how you use other websites, including identifying shared interests and behaviors across groups of users who visit our (and other) websites. In connection with these types of cookies, your activity may be tracked or monitored using identifiers (e.g., a cookie ID, other unique identification numbers). These types of cookies will typically stay on your computer until they are deleted or until they expire (if applicable). Cookies Details‎ Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. &nbsp; &nbsp;All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Cookies Details‎ Back Button Cookie List Search Icon Filter Icon Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Reject Cookies (except necessary) Confirm My Choices